Note: Unless otherwise specified, information for these descriptions was drawn from the WW2
  website listed in our process.md.

Invasion of Poland (1939)

    German Leader Adolf Hitler understood that his overall conquest of Europe relied on neutralizing
  Poland in the East, gaining a non-aggression assurance from the Soviets and preparing for battle 
  against Britain and France in the West. From there, the final push would be against its one-time
  ally in the Soviet Union giving Hitler's Reich all of the slave manpower, agricultural resources
  and natural resources that it required.

    Adolph Hitler had already devised his plans apart from Britain and French involvement and 
  these were finalized by his commanders on August 26th, 1939. A non-aggression pact had 
  already been signed with the Soviets that same month and the final order to invade was given 
  on August 31st, 1939. On September 1st, 1939, German forces crossed into Polish territory to 
  officially begin World War 2.

    On the brink of war, Hitler's German forces numbered 60 divisions with 2,750 tanks, 2,315 
  aircraft and 9,000 artillery pieces against a Polish force of 39 divisions covering 880 tanks, 
  400 aircraft and 4,300 artillery systems. When the Soviet Union committed to the action, it 
  brought with it 33 divisions numbering 4,736 tanks, 3,300 aircraft and 5,000 field guns of 
  all types. Total manpower committed was 1.5 million German soldiers, 466,500 Red Army troops
  and 51,300 Slovakian soldiers against a smaller Polish threat.

    Against insurmountable odds, the last Polish defenders surrendered on October 6th, ending 
  the German-Soviet campaign against Poland. At the end of the fighting, 66,000 Polish defenders 
  would be killed with a further 133,700 to 200,000 wounded in action. To this was added the 
  humiliation of 694,000 Polish soldiers taken as Prisoners of War (POW) to see certain death 
  through starvation, abuse or execution across the many prison camps and death marches 
  instituted after the invasion. In turn, the German Army managed losses of 16,300 with 30,300 
  wounded in the fighting while the Soviets fared better with 1,475 to 5,300 killed and 2,380 
  wounded in fewer weeks of fighting. Slovakian forces lost 37 with 114 wounded.`

Battle of the Atlantic

    The Battle of the Atlantic is one of the most overlooked battlegrounds of World War 2 but it 
  proved no less important for control of vital shipping lanes between North America and Europe.
  The German U-boat scourge was one of the more deadlier components of the German war machine, 
  a component utilized in World War 1 as well. The U-boat became the greatest threat to  
  merchantmen traversing the long, open causeways of the Atlantic Ocean for most of the war.

    The Battle of the Atlantic was not a single event, but rather a constant struggle between
  Germany and the Allies. In September 1939, German U-boats began their attacks on Allied 
  watercraft, attacking military and merchant vessels alike. 

    However, by March of 1943, the golden age of the German U-boat - and any advantage they 
  held - was undone. Allied tactics improved thanks to technology, experience and execution. 
  U-boats were increasingly targeted as were their all-important bases of origination. The 
  RAF succeeded in disrupting such operations along the coast of France and the successful 
  June 1944 D-Day invasions removed these German Navy bases from contention altogether. The 
  commission-to-loss rate of the U-boat fleet became unsupportable - with 98 new boats placed
  online to try and replace the 123 or so lost.

    Arguably the most important battlefront of World War 2 was now contained in favor of the
  Allies, but it was not without a cost. In the end, the German U-boat Scourge cost the Allies
  thousands of ships and millions of tons of goods.

Dunkirk

    After seeing the fall of Poland, Holland, and Belgium to German forces, French and British
  forces began congregating at the French port city of Dunkirk. Sensing total annihilation of
  Allied forces, British Prime Minister Winston Churchill ordered a flotilla of civilian ships
  to help shuttle troops from impending doom at the hands of the German army. The effort would 
  become one of epic proportions as over 338,000 Allied troops were rescued from certain death
  in what would become known as the 'Miracle at Dunkirk'.

    Despite this effort, Allied forces at Dunkirk were not without their losses. A final French 
  Army stand at Dunkirk netted the Germans some 40,000 French soldiers as Prisoners of War 
  while thousands of vehicles, artillery pieces and small arms were captured - delivering 
  yet another blow to Allied military firepower. The Germans would eventually take the port 
  city under their control and end the stand once and for all. Despite the defeat in Europe, 
  the survivors would live to fight another day. The event laid the groundwork for the next 
  phase of Hitler's plans - the invasion of Britain itself. 

Battle of Britain

    After the fall of most of mainland Europe, the German military machine moved its attention
  onto Great Britain. In preparation for a ground invasion of the island, formally known as
  Operation Sea Lion, German warplanners recognized that air superiority would have to be 
  earned against the British Royal Air Force (RAF). Less than three weeks after the Fall of
  France, the German Luftwaffe went to work against this seasoned group of aviators.

    Against 3,358 aircraft (including 1,223 fighters, 1,482 bombers and 327 dive bombers) 
  fielded by the Germans, the British managed just 1,963 total aircraft - primarily 903 of 
  which were single-two-seat fighter types - 560 bombers and 500 coastal-minded aircraft. 
  The Hawker Hurricane and Supermarine Spitfire became  stars of the British cause during the 
  battle, facing off against the equally stellar German Messerschmitt Bf 109 fighter.

    Aided by its intelligence network and growing proficiency with radar, the British managed 
  to hold steady despite daily attacks against both military and civilian populations. Feeling 
  that Britain could be contained and do no serious damage from its now-weakened position, 
  Hitler postponed Operation Sea Lion indefinitely and moved his thoughts to his true master 
  plan - the invasion of the Soviet Union. In the end, The Luftwaffe lost 1,887 aircraft to 
  the enemy's 1,547 (including 56 alone on September 15th) with 2,698 aircrew dead against 
  the British 544.

Operation Barbarossa

    In accordance with Hitler's grand vision, the Soviet Union and its varied peoples were to 
  be subdued if a new "German Empire" was to be realized. The captured lands would serve to 
  feed Army advances and slave labor would provide Germany with the necessary manpower for 
  victory and a long-standing existence after the war. On June 22nd, 1941, Operation Barbarossa
  was launched to begin the East Front - the German invasion of the Soviet Union.

    The invasion plans were optimistic: through surprise, strength, and optimizations of the 
  'blitzkrieg', it was thought that Axis forces could reach and capture the Soviet capital of 
  Moscow in little more than eight weeks. A massive land and air campaign was drawn up that 
  involved everything from tanks, cars, aircraft, artillery, supply trucks, and some 600,000+ 
  horses. Personnel were pulled from all ranks of the Axis powers - Germany, Romania, Italy, 
  Hungary, Slovakia, and Finland with manpower numbering 3.8 million against the Soviet 
  strength of 2.9 million fighting men and women.

    With the element of surprise, momentum, and weather on its side, the German Army made 
  tremendous gains. In their wake were either dead foes or beleaguered enemies, though several 
  resisting pockets sprung up to cause some alarm. The operation would span from June 1941 to 
  December 5th, 1941 and, at the end of it all, the invaders went no further then Smolensk 
  with the offensive stalling just outside of Moscow. A lull in the fighting brought on by 
  poor winter weather and stressed supply lines for the attackers allowed the Soviets to 
  recoup and rearm, bringing about the Battle of Moscow (October 1941 - January 1942). 

Battle of Moscow (nationalinterest.org)

    In the aftermath of Operation Barbarossa, the continued German encirclement of Soviet forces
  had cost nearly 4 million Soviet lives. By early October, the Germans had advanced to within
  200 miles of Moscow. Germany needed to end the War in the East soon, so they began Operation
  Typhoon to sieze the Soviet capital. The initial phase of Typhoon went according to plan, 
  with four Soviet armies and more than 500,000 Soviet soldiers killed or captured at Vyazma 
  alone. With proper supply and good weather, the Germans could probably have capitalized on
  this momentum and conquered all of Russia. Alas, neither condition would prove true.

    As winter of 1941 drew nearer, neither the German invaders nor the Russian defenders were in good
  shape. By October, Germany had lost roughly 15 percent of their invasion force. German tanks,
  trucks, and trains were not well-equipped to handle the harsh temperatures muddy landscapes,
  so the remaining force, though sizable, became short on food, ammunition, and fuel for their
  machines. After the German armies paused for breath in early November, the weather turned 
  colder, freezing the mud and giving Hitler's troops the solid footing they needed to advance. 
  By the end of November, German reconnaissance units were just 12 miles from Moscow, so close 
  they could see the towers of the city through their binoculars. Before Moscow could be captured,
  however, the Soviets launched their counter offensive.

    When the counter offensive began on December 5, the Soviet armies punched through an enemy 
  more scarecrow than human. German weapons were frozen, German soldiers were frozen, and 
  sometimes the soldiers froze to the weapons. The survivors could only watch helplessly as 
  the attackers, warmly clad in fur-lined jackets and boots, and camouflaged in white 
  snowsuits, emerged like ghosts through the mist and snow. Though in the end Soviet defenses 
  succeeded in defending Moscow, the Soviets suffered over 1 million soldier casualties. By 
  comparison, Germany lost 170,000.

Pearl Harbor

    On the other side of the planet, Japan was preparing to assert its colonial dominance in the
  Pacific. In order to do so, the threat of the American Navy centralized in Pearl Harbor in the 
  Hawaiian Islands would have to be neutralized. Before the assault on Pearl, the Japanese had 
  worked hard at developing the tools for the Imperial Japanese Navy to get the job done. 
  The Japanese Navy was gifted ships built to specifications beyond those imposed on the 
  world's navies after World War 1. Aircraft were now attached to floating carrier ships and 
  made just as lethal as their land counterparts. 

    A large Japanese fleet, complete with six carriers loading some 450 aircraft, set sail from 
  Japan towards Hawaii. Japanese diplomats were sent to Washington with a formal declaration 
  of war to be delivered at a specific time in the day. The Americans tried desperately to warn
  their forces in Hawaii, but on the morning of December 7th, 1941, the Japanese achieved total
  surpise on the unsuspecting American forces.

    In the end, eight total battleships were put out of commission, either bombed or torpedoed 
  - some multiple times - and strafed by machine gun and cannon fire for good measure. Hawaii's 
  airfields lay in ruin and, with them, some 200 American aircraft were destroyed or damaged 
  - just two managed to get airborne in the fighting. 2,403 lives were lost, of these 2,335 
  were servicemen and women and 1,104 of these went down with the USS Arizona. 1,178 people 
  were reported wounded and 68 civilians were killed. Through it all, the Japanese lost just 
  29 aircraft and several midget submarines.

Battle of Midway

    The Battle of Midway was an early key naval battle in the Pacific Theater between the forces
  of the United States Navy (USN) and the Empire of Japan. Japan was keen on knocking out the 
  remaining American carriers by luring them into a complicated trap - this to include a 
  diversionary invasion of the Alaskan Aleutian Islands in the north. This would force the 
  American carriers out of Pearl for the  final deathblow. A Japanese victory would then secure 
  their sphere of influence in the Pacific and help close the range on other targeted islands. 

    Unbeknownst to the Japanese Empire, American intelligence had intercepted and deciphered
  these plans, and secretly set up a counter-ambush. Still weak from Pearl Harbor, this element
  of surprise gave the American Navy the leverage it needed to combat the Japanese forces.

    In the end, the Japanese operation was a terrible failure - four key carriers were lost along 
  with thousands of personnel including irreplaceable and experienced airmen and aircraft. 
  American actions during the Midway Campaign ensured their own respective presence in the 
  Pacific Theater would be solidified by the event. For the Japanese military, it had now 
  witnessed its peak as an unstoppable fighting force - and it now faced the very real 
  possibility of defeat with a war inching its way to Tokyo itself.

Battle of Stalingrad

    Besieged by the German 6th Army the strategic Soviet city held out with minimal supplies 
  and a dwindling band of defenders of the 62nd Army. German propaganda, based on the grand 
  thrusts into and around Stalingrad, were already proclaiming victory for the German Army. 
  Soldiers and supplies were pouring to the 6th Army to make sure the assault went Germany's
  way, and German General Paulus was the man in charge. On the other side, Soviet Marshal 
  Zhukov was planning his counteroffensive to help alleviate his beleaguered Stalingrad 
  defenders. Zhukov prepared his massive ground force a short distance away, committing 
  whatever important elements came his way to the assault to come.

    In the early morning hours of November 19th, 1942, Zhukov ordered his cannons and rocket 
  systems to light up the sky. Later, another Soviet action opened up against the German 6th 
  to the south of the city. Soviet ground forces, led by infantry and tanks, poured in. 
  In only three days, the German 6th Army was cut off and surrounded from rescue or retreat. 
  In effect, the besiegers were now the besieged. Continuous Soviet counterattacks and several
  failed rescue attempts by the rest of the German army led the General Paulus' official
  surrender on February 2nd, 1943.

    Of the 300,000 German souls caught up in the Battle of Stalingrad, 160,000 died with some 
  80,000 lost to conditions brought about by weather and a lack of food. Only 35,000 German 
  Army soldiers were successfully rescued by the Luftwaffe before the city fell back to Soviet 
  control, leaving a further 90,000 to deal with the Soviet brand of justice. Only 5,000 of 
  these men were ever seen again in the post-war years - the rest dying on the long march, 
  executed in typical Soviet fashion or dying from exhaustion in the Siberian labor camps they 
  were confined to.

D-Day

    It was no secret to both sides of the war in Europe that France would be the ultimate 
  battleground for turning the tide in either party's favor. Germany was entrenched in a 
  bloody struggle to the East against the might of the Red Army, having a hard time replacing 
  their mounting losses in the process. They were losing ground in Italy after having lost 
  their hold in North Africa altogether. But in the north of France, the Germans maintained a 
  relatively easily accessible route to the North Sea. Should any invasion stem from English 
  shores, the German Army would indeed be ready.

    While German authorities were convinced that the invasion of Europe would come from England 
  herself, they mistakenly agreed that the most logical point would be in the region of Pas de 
  Calais - the shortest jaunt from English shores to France. As such, defenses in this area were 
  heightened. 

    In truth, the Allied invasion force was amassing to the south of England. Along its shores 
  were thousands of naval vessels ready to sail the choppy and unforgiving North Sea into 
  France. Weather played a major role in preparations and only two days were afforded for the 
  massive invasion plan - May 17th and June 5th. The former was cancelled on account of bad 
  weather. Likewise, bad weather forced the latter to be postponed 24 hours, resulting in the 
  date of June 6th, 1944 - the "Day of Days" - to be the deciding moment, forever to be 
  encapsulated to history as "D-Day".

    By 6:30AM, the first of the many Allied landings began in Northern France, formally 
  initializing D-Day. Five beach sectors were codenamed for the landing of further infantry, 
  armor and supplies - they became known as Utah, Omaha, Gold, Sword and Juno. The Americans 
  were charged with handling Utah and Omaha while the British and Canadian forces were to take 
  Sword, Juno and Gold. Despite all of the planning, many landing craft released their infantry 
  well ahead of the shoreline, against both rough seas and enemy fire. Casualties of the first 
  waves were extensively high.

    At the end of the day, all beachheads were established though not all of the optimistic 
  objectives were met. Regardless, the operation proves an overall success and the road to Paris 
  was now open. In all, Operation Overlord involved 175,000 land personnel, 195,700 navy 
  personnel and 6,939 surface vessels making it the largest amphibious assault in recorded 
  history. Interestingly, Germany's fabled U-boat fleet was nowhere to be found in the ensuing 
  actions, providing the Allies with full control of the North Sea at the time of the invasion.

Battle of the Bulge

    By the end of 1944, the Allied advance across Europe was such that the front was held in 
  check at its ends by two large armies - the Canadians and English to the North and the Americans 
  and General Patton to the south. In between the two concentrated forces lay a thin line of 
  some 80,000 Allied troops. The reason for this thin grouping of support was largely explained 
  by its location, this in the thick of the seemingly impenetrable Ardennes Forest. It was a 
  long-held belief that the area was ill-suited for any sort of open warfare and the Allies 
  utilized this feeling and the surrounding terrain to concentrate critical forces to the 
  fighting elsewhere along the Front.

    However, Hitler had developed other plans when constructing his Ardennes Offensive, and his 
  surprise was unveiled on December 16th, 1944 when the German Army opened up in one of their 
  largest displays of artillery bombardment ever. Mechanized forces of the German 5th and 15th 
  Panzer armies, as well as the 6th SS and 7th Army, attacked the US VIII forces in a line 
  between Aachen and Bastogne. The German surprise held up well and the Allies reeled at the 
  advance, however, some contingents held their ground. The last German blitzkrieg was underway 
  as a grand total of 200,000 German personnel were mustered into a singular fighting force, 
  encompassing both battle-hardened troops such as those of the Waffen-SS and non-combatants 
  from across the German territories.

    The Allied lines were fractured and independent defenses soon sprung about. Poor weather 
  cover ensured that the Allied would not be counting on air support for the time being. Being 
  that the Germans had lost air superiority by this time, the playing field was more or less 
  leveled. Instead, Allied artillery hammered at the flanks of the German advance where 
  possible and the German thrust was eventually held before reaching Dinant, some 60 miles 
  from the Ardennes Offensive starting point. Both forces inevitably butted heads at the small 
  town of Bastogne. After holding onto Bastogne for a full week while being encircled by the 
  German Army, the 101st repelled the final german thrust. The Battle of the Bulge - the last 
  major German offensive - was stopped. By mid February of 1945, all gains by the German Army
  were undone and the way would be over by the end of April. In the end, The Ardennes Offensive 
  would cost Germany some 88,000 of her soldiers while American paid the hefty toll of losing 
  77,000 of their own.

(Conclusion) Fall of Berlin/Battle of Okinawa